src/data/articles/workplace-justice-ally.mdx, before:

---
title: Being an Ally Means Getting It Wrong Sometimes
description: Specific examples of how to be a better ally.
published: 2020-08-28T08:04:22-07:00
updated: 2020-09-04T07:41:46-07:00
keywords:
  - justice
---

Recently, there was an exchange at work that bothered me. It happened in a small
private Slack channel about social justice. The company's HR manager announced
that she added a "Preferred Personal Pronoun" field to the HR system. It's a
select-one field with three choices:

- He/Him
- She/Her
- They/Them

Another person in the channel, who is part of the community impacted by this
issue, suggested a couple of changes:

1. Remove "preferred" from the label

   _Affected person: Remove the word preferred from the "Preferred Personal
   Pronoun" label, since preference implies that it can be ignored._

   _HR manager: "Hmm, I didn't pick up on it that way," but will look into
   removing the word from the label._

   **Possible intention**: Trying to be more inclusive.

   **Unintended outcome**: Your offhand remark invalidates my feelings and
   experiences. It makes me feel like my gender identity is something I have to
   justify, when most people are moving though life without having to even think
   about it.

1. Use a text field instead of select-one

   _Affected person: Use a text field instead of select-one to allow people to
   put whatever they want as their pronoun._

   _HR manager: Will look into adding an "other" selection with a text box._

   **Possible intention**: Good point—there, problem solved.

   **Unintended outcome**: _Other_? Can I feel even more, well, _othered_?

## Intention vs. Outcome

Of course I don't know exactly how both of them felt, and the situation is far
more nuanced and can't be reduced or summarized neatly, but hopefully you get
the point that words do matter.

It may seem like an exaggeration when you're part of the privileged group, but
interactions like this can make a person feel further marginalized, dehumanized,
and even attacked, regardless of the best intentions.

Another trope reinforced by this interaction is that the affected person is,
once again, in the position to do the educating, rather than the privileged
person doing their own research and critical thinking. Regardless of intention,
it makes the effort seem meaningless and the outcome careless.

## One of My Own Mistakes

In a private follow-up conversation with the affected person, I asked for
feedback on my own interactions with her. She pointed out that during the hiring
process, the company doesn't formally ask candidates for their pronouns, and
that I asked for her pronoun well after an offer was extended. She made couple
suggestions:

1. I should have asked the first time I met her.
1. I should have offered my own pronoun before asking.

By not taking these simple steps, I reinforced harmful gender normative
behaviors. I certainly never asked for pronouns from other people we've
interviewed or hired. Why is that?

From her perspective, these are the mistakes I made:

1. I assumed how a woman should look and sound.
1. I didn't attempt to perceive her as a whole person until she was hired.
1. By not offering my own pronoun, and by not asking people who appear to fit
   neatly into the gender box, I _othered_ her.

I had to ask myself, in my entire life, how many times have I been asked for my
pronoun in a way that questioned my gender? How many times have I had to
struggle with myself about what _my_ pronoun is? Exactly zero. By assuming my
experience is the _normal_ experience, I actively caused harm to another person
that I care about.

She suggested Natalie Reed's excellent [The Null HypotheCis][] article as a more
in-depth exploration of reframing the gender question. I encourage you to take
the time and space to read, reflect, and gain a bit more empathy.

## Justice Work Is Hard Work

You may think, why make a mountain out of a mole hill? Wasn't it great when
things were simple and clear cut? The fact is that things are not, and never
were, simple and clear cut. They were only conveniently simple and clear cut
when you choose to go along, perhaps even a little uncomfortably, with the side
that wields the power.

Most of us wield power of some kind, even if we belong to a marginalized group.
None of us can do the right thing all the time. I mess up, and you'll mess up
too. The key is to listen, recognize, acknowledge, educate, and activate.

Keep learning how to accept critical feedback graciously, even if it makes you
feel bad. Keep learning how to spot injustices, big or small. Keep learning
about and keep expanding your own capacity to make meaningful changes to correct
those injustices.

## So, About That Pronoun Field…

One month after the Slack exchange, the select-one field with three choices is
still labeled "Preferred Personal Pronoun" in the HR system.

## Update (September 4, 2020)

After another misstep in changing the pronoun field as a response to this
article, and an impassioned follow-up by the affected person in the Slack
channel, the HR system now has a text field labeled "Personal Pronoun."

One. Step. At. A. Time.

[the null hypothecis]: https://freethoughtblogs.com/nataliereed/2012/04/17/the-null-hypothecis/

Commit message:

feat(content): add article summary support
- Enhance content configuration to include summary field
- Add summary to existing article metadata
- Update index page to display article summaries
- Improve content presentation with concise preview text
- Prepare for better content discoverability and user engagement

src/data/articles/workplace-justice-ally.mdx, after:

---
title: Being an Ally Means Getting It Wrong Sometimes
description: Specific examples of how to be a better ally.
published: 2020-08-28T08:04:22-07:00
updated: 2020-09-04T07:41:46-07:00
summary: >
  Being an ally means being open to learning—and sometimes getting it wrong. In
  this post, I share how a well-intentioned change to our HR system
  unintentionally marginalized a team member, and how my own missteps
  reinforced harmful gender norms.
---

Recently, there was an exchange at work that bothered me. It happened in a small
private Slack channel about social justice. The company's HR manager announced
that she added a "Preferred Personal Pronoun" field to the HR system. It's a
select-one field with three choices:

- He/Him
- She/Her
- They/Them

Another person in the channel, who is part of the community impacted by this
issue, suggested a couple of changes:

1. Remove "preferred" from the label

   _Affected person: Remove the word preferred from the "Preferred Personal
   Pronoun" label, since preference implies that it can be ignored._

   _HR manager: "Hmm, I didn't pick up on it that way," but will look into
   removing the word from the label._

   **Possible intention**: Trying to be more inclusive.

   **Unintended outcome**: Your offhand remark invalidates my feelings and
   experiences. It makes me feel like my gender identity is something I have to
   justify, when most people are moving though life without having to even think
   about it.

1. Use a text field instead of select-one

   _Affected person: Use a text field instead of select-one to allow people to
   put whatever they want as their pronoun._

   _HR manager: Will look into adding an "other" selection with a text box._

   **Possible intention**: Good point—there, problem solved.

   **Unintended outcome**: _Other_? Can I feel even more, well, _othered_?

## Intention vs. Outcome

Of course I don't know exactly how both of them felt, and the situation is far
more nuanced and can't be reduced or summarized neatly, but hopefully you get
the point that words do matter.

It may seem like an exaggeration when you're part of the privileged group, but
interactions like this can make a person feel further marginalized, dehumanized,
and even attacked, regardless of the best intentions.

Another trope reinforced by this interaction is that the affected person is,
once again, in the position to do the educating, rather than the privileged
person doing their own research and critical thinking. Regardless of intention,
it makes the effort seem meaningless and the outcome careless.

## One of My Own Mistakes

In a private follow-up conversation with the affected person, I asked for
feedback on my own interactions with her. She pointed out that during the hiring
process, the company doesn't formally ask candidates for their pronouns, and
that I asked for her pronoun well after an offer was extended. She made couple
suggestions:

1. I should have asked the first time I met her.
1. I should have offered my own pronoun before asking.

By not taking these simple steps, I reinforced harmful gender normative
behaviors. I certainly never asked for pronouns from other people we've
interviewed or hired. Why is that?

From her perspective, these are the mistakes I made:

1. I assumed how a woman should look and sound.
1. I didn't attempt to perceive her as a whole person until she was hired.
1. By not offering my own pronoun, and by not asking people who appear to fit
   neatly into the gender box, I _othered_ her.

I had to ask myself, in my entire life, how many times have I been asked for my
pronoun in a way that questioned my gender? How many times have I had to
struggle with myself about what _my_ pronoun is? Exactly zero. By assuming my
experience is the _normal_ experience, I actively caused harm to another person
that I care about.

She suggested Natalie Reed's excellent [The Null HypotheCis][] article as a more
in-depth exploration of reframing the gender question. I encourage you to take
the time and space to read, reflect, and gain a bit more empathy.

## Justice Work Is Hard Work

You may think, why make a mountain out of a mole hill? Wasn't it great when
things were simple and clear cut? The fact is that things are not, and never
were, simple and clear cut. They were only conveniently simple and clear cut
when you choose to go along, perhaps even a little uncomfortably, with the side
that wields the power.

Most of us wield power of some kind, even if we belong to a marginalized group.
None of us can do the right thing all the time. I mess up, and you'll mess up
too. The key is to listen, recognize, acknowledge, educate, and activate.

Keep learning how to accept critical feedback graciously, even if it makes you
feel bad. Keep learning how to spot injustices, big or small. Keep learning
about and keep expanding your own capacity to make meaningful changes to correct
those injustices.

## So, About That Pronoun Field…

One month after the Slack exchange, the select-one field with three choices is
still labeled "Preferred Personal Pronoun" in the HR system.

## Update (September 4, 2020)

After another misstep in changing the pronoun field as a response to this
article, and an impassioned follow-up by the affected person in the Slack
channel, the HR system now has a text field labeled "Personal Pronoun."

One. Step. At. A. Time.

[the null hypothecis]: https://freethoughtblogs.com/nataliereed/2012/04/17/the-null-hypothecis/
